Files included are meant to be used in a google colab python workspace. The IPYNB files may be exported and ported into a jupyter or other file format. 
These files as is will give a spectral decomposition within a set coordinate system. The codes will need to be run sequentially as data products from previous workbooks will be called on within the google drive workspace. Workbooks are labeled sequentially 1 through 5 and the other workbook will produce gifs from the decomposition products for time series viewing.
This code was developed to target the Indian River Lagoon in Florida and is meant for water quality remote sensing and so it only targets water pixels. If you would like to use this tool to target a different area, simply change the coordinates. 
https://etd.ohiolink.edu/acprod/odb_etd/etd/r/1501/10?clear=10&p10_accession_num=kent1688035523806059

You can also add the abstract from your thesis to the read me:

Abstract
Over the years, the health of the Indian River Lagoon (IRL) on the east coast of Florida and estuaries like it have fluctuated due to occurrences of harmful algae blooms (HABs). Recent events have often involved Aureoumbra lagunensis (brown tide), cyanobacteria, and water quality changes. A. lagunensis, a member of the phylum Ochrophyta, is adapted for low phosphorus conditions and grows well in high N:P ratio environments (Kang et al. 2015, Judice et al. 2020). The Northern IRL and the Banana River have been found to be significantly nitrogen-rich and phosphorus-limited and linked to circulating high nitrogen from groundwater sewage inputs (Lapointe et al. 2015). Although HABs can be non-toxic, they can grow so densely that they threaten critical primary producers like seagrass and can cause eutrophication and fish kill events through associated hypoxia or anoxia. The nature of these blooms makes it critical to create an early warning system to better monitor water quality changes. To do this, I applied the Kent State University Varimax-rotated principal component analysis (KSU VPCA) method to images from a harmonized Sentinel-2 A/B MSI data set spanning three years and used field data to validate the time series. Comparison with Sentinel-3 A/B OLCI images coincident with Sentinel 2 A/B MSI images further validates the observations. The KSU VPCA method employs visible derivative spectra from water pixels in images and unmixes the spectral signal to identify components such as divisions of algae, suspended sediments, or seagrass. This research expands on past studies using the same method on Sentinel-3 A/B OLCI data conducted by Judice et al. 2020 by creating an average time series KSU VPCA model for Sentinel-2 A/B and applying it to 134 images over 3 years. Through this research I find confident identification of in-water components related to cyanobacterial blooms, suspended sediment and map seagrass bed coverage. The harmonized Sentinel-2 A/B MSI time series has a high spatial resolution of 10-meters and has shown a pattern of HABs initiating in the coastal waters of the Banana River and expanding into other areas of the IRL. Unlike the prior study, brown tide was not observed in the IRL during the study period of 2020-2023 by either field observations or remote sensing using the KSU VPCA method. However, the KSU VPCA method differentiated cyanobacteria and dinoflagellates with confidence, matching coincident cell count observations, although the lower spectral density of the Sentinel 2 A/B MSI relative to Sentinel 3 A/B OLCI sensors made differentiating some algal and suspended sediment composition by mineralogy more challenging. This analysis was also capable of identifying sea-grass populations with great confidence. Future studies should explore the full capabilities of seagrass imaging and the ability to monitor sea-grass health over time. More research is required to determine if cyanobacterial blooms occur in conjunction with turbid water in the IRL. This study helps to improve the brown-tide, cyanoHAB, and water quality monitoring in the IRL and aids in identification of potential causes of HABS.

Committee
Joseph Ortiz (Advisor)
He Yin (Committee Member)
Allyson Tessin (Committee Member)

Judice, T., Widder, E.A., Falls, W.H., Avouris, D.M., Cristiano, D.J., & Ortiz, J.D. Field-validated detection of Aureoumbra lagunensis brown tide blooms in the Indian River Lagoon, Florida using Sentinel-3A OLCI and ground-based hyperspectral spectroradiometers, GeoHealth, 2020. https://agupubs.onlinelibrary.wiley.com/doi/abs/10.1029/2019GH000238
Ortiz, J.D., Avouris, D. Schiller, S.J., Luvall, J.C., Lekki, J.D., Tokars, R.P., Anderson, R.C., Shuchman, R., Sayers, M. and R. Becker, (2019) Evaluating visible derivative spectroscopy by varimax-rotated, principal component analysis of aerial hyperspectral images from the western basin of Lake Erie, Journal of Great Lakes Research, Volume 45, Issue 3, June 2019, Pages 522-535, https://doi.org/10.1016/j.jglr.2019.03.005
Avouris, D.M. and Ortiz, J.D., (2019) Validation of 2015 Lake Erie MODIS image spectral decomposition using visible derivative spectroscopy and field campaign data, Journal of Great Lakes Research Volume 45, Issue 3, June 2019, Pages 466-479, https://doi.org/10.1016/j.jglr.2019.02.005
Ortiz, J.D., D. Avouris, S. Schiller, J. Luvall, J. Lekki, R.P. Tokars, R.C. Anderson, R. Shuchman, M. Sayers, and R. Becker, Intercomparison of Approaches to the Empirical Line Method for Vicarious Hyperspectral Reflectance Calibration, Front. Mar. Sci., vol. 4, 14 September 2017, https://doi.org/10.3389/fmars.2017.00296
Ortiz, J.D., Witter, D.L., Ali, K.A., Fela, N., Duff, M., and Mills, L., Evaluating multiple color producing agents in Case II waters from Lake Erie, International Journal of Remote Sensing, 34 (24), 8854-8880, 2013.
Ali, K.A., Witter, D.L., and J.D. Ortiz, 2012, Multivariate approach to estimate color producing agents in Case 2 waters using first-derivative spectrophotometer data, Geocarto International, 10/30/2012 DOI:10.1080/10106049.2012.743601.
